Refactor astroquery.heasarc to use VO protocols (#2997)
astropy/astroquery: docs/heasarc/heasarc.rst

`HEASARC <https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/>`__
archive web service.

> There main interface for the Heasarc services``heasarc.Heasac`` now uses

Reviewer: typos
```suggestion
There main interface for the Heasarc services, ``astroquery.heasarc.Heasarc()``, now uses
```

Virtual Observatory protocols with the Xamin interface, which offers

> more powerful search options than the old Browse interface.

Reviewer: typo.  But then I would suggest to ditch this whole half-sentence. 
```suggestion
more powerful search options than the old browser-based interface.
```

Reviewer: this still stands, no need to mention the old ways, but at least fix the language.

- :ref:`Heasarc Main Interface`.

.. _Heasarc Main Interface:

Heasarc Main Interface
=======================

Query a Table
-------------
The basic use case is one where we wants to query a table from some position in the sky.
In this example, we query the NuSTAR master table ``numaster`` for all observations
of the AGN ``NGC 3783``. We use `~astropy.coordinates.SkyCoord` to obtain the coordinates
and then pass them to `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> pos = SkyCoord.from_name('ngc 3783')
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, table='numaster')
    >>> tab['name', 'obsid', 'ra', 'dec'][:3].pprint()
      name    obsid      ra      dec   
                        deg      deg   
    -------- -------- -------- --------
    NGC_3783 80701617 174.7573 -37.7386
    NGC_3783 60901023 174.7571 -37.7385
    NGC_3783 60902005 174.7571 -37.7385

To query a region around some position, specifying the search radius,

> we use `~astropy.units`:

Reviewer: don't refer to the module, but the classes.

Author: changed.

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasac
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> from astropy import units as u
    >>> pos = SkyCoord('120 38', unit=u.deg)
    >>> tab = Heasac.query_region(pos, table='chanmaster', radius=2*u.deg)
    >>> tab['name', 'obsid', 'ra', 'dec'][:5].pprint()
               name           obsid     ra      dec   
                                       deg      deg   
    ------------------------- ----- --------- --------
                    ABELL 611  3194 120.23708 36.05722
                   B2 0755+37   858 119.61750 37.78667
    WISEA J080357.73+390823.1 28213 120.99060 39.13980
        1RXS J075526.1+391111 13008 118.85875 39.18639
     SDSS J080040.77+391700.5 18110 120.17000 39.28344

If no radius value is given, a default that is appropriate
for each table is used. You can see the value of the default

> radius values by calling `~~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass._get_default_radius`,

Reviewer: This is a private function, don't refer to it in the narrative documentation.

Author: I think this method can be useful to the user, and that is why it is documented. It was initially public, and  changed it to private after the first set of comments. I leaning towards making it public again and then referenced it here.

Author: Since this may be useful to the end user, it has been changed to a public method.

passing the name of the table.

The list of returned columns can also be given as a comma-separated string to
`~~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:

> .. doctest-skip::

Reviewer: Why do we skip this?

Author: fixed

    >>> tab = Heasac.tables(keywords='chandra')
    >>> # list the first 10
    >>> tab[:10].pprint()
       name                              description                           
    ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
    acceptcat Archive of Chandra Cluster Entropy Profile Tables (ACCEPT) Catal
        aegisx  AEGIS-X Chandra Extended Groth Strip X-Ray Point Source Catalog
    aegisxdcxo           AEGIS-X Deep Survey Chandra X-Ray Point Source Catalog
    aknepdfcxo  Akari North Ecliptic Pole Deep Field Chandra X-Ray Point Source
    arcquincxo Arches and Quintuplet Clusters Chandra X-Ray Point Source Catalo
    atcdfsss82  Australia Telescope Chandra Deep Field-South and SDSS Stripe 82
    bmwchancat                 Brera Multi-scale Wavelet Chandra Source Catalog
    candelscxo                   CANDELS H-Band Selected Chandra Source Catalog
    cargm31cxo          Carina Nebula Gum 31 Chandra X-Ray Point Source Catalog
    carinaclas                 Carina Nebula Chandra X-Ray Point Source Classes

If you are interested only finding the master tables, you can also set ``master`` to ``True``.

.. doctest-remote-data::

>     >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasac

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
```

Author: fixed here and in other places in the rst document.

    >>> tab = Heasac.tables(keywords='chandra', master=True)
    >>> tab.pprint()
       name        description     
    ---------- --------------------
    chanmaster Chandra Observations

Multiple keywords that are separated by space are joined with **AND**, so the 

> following find all tables that have both 'xmm' and 'chandra' keyworkds:

Reviewer: typo

Author: fixed

`HEASARC <https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/>`__
archive web service.

The main interface for the Heasarc services ``heasarc.Heasarc`` uses
Virtual Observatory protocols, which offer powerful archive search options.

- :ref:`Heasarc Main Interface`.

.. _Heasarc Main Interface:

Heasarc Main Interface
=======================

Query a Catalog
---------------

> The basic use case is one where we wants to query a catalog from some position in the sky.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The basic use case is one where we want to query a catalog from some position in the sky.
```

In this example, we query the NuSTAR master catalog ``numaster`` for all observations
of the AGN ``NGC 3783``. We use `~astropy.coordinates.SkyCoord` to obtain the coordinates
and then pass them to `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> pos = SkyCoord.from_name('ngc 3783')
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, catalog='numaster')

>     >>> tab = tab[tab['time'] > 0] 

Reviewer 2: it would help to add a brief explanation of why you're selecting for positive 'time's

Author: This is an actively updated table and observations that are scheduled and not observed have `time==0`. This just ensures the doctest is reproducible.

Reviewer 2: That's super useful information that I suspect most users would be unaware of.  I recommend you include that note as a comment here or in the text explanation just below.

with those results.

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> pos = SkyCoord.from_name('ngc 3516')
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, catalog='nicermastr')
    >>> tab = tab[tab['exposure'] > 0]
    >>> links = Heasarc.locate_data(tab[:2])
    >>> links['access_url'].pprint()
                                access_url                             
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/FTP/nicer/data/obs/2018_08//1100120101/
    https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/FTP/nicer/data/obs/2018_08//1100120102/

The ``links`` table has three relevant columns: ``access_url``, ``sciserver`` and ``aws``.
The first gives the url to the data from the main heasarc server. The second gives
the local path to the data on Sciserver. The last gives the S3 URI to the data in the cloud.
You can specify where the data are to be downloaded using the ``location`` parameter.

To download the data, you can pass ``links`` table to `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.download_data`,

> specifying from where you want the data to fetched by specifying the ``host`` parameter. By default,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specifying from where you want the data to be fetched by specifying the ``host`` parameter. By default,
```

the data is fetched from the main HEASARC servers.

> The recommendation is to use different hosts depending on where you can is running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recommendation is to use different hosts depending on where your code is running:
```

* ``host='sciserver'``: Use this option if you running you analysis on Sciserver. Because
all the archive can be mounted locally there, `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.download_data`
will only copy the relevant data.
* ``host='aws'``: Use this option if you are running the analysis in Amazon Web Services (AWS).
Data will be downloaded from AWS S3 storage.
* ``host='heasarc'``: Use this option for other cases. This is the classical and most general option.

> In this case, the requested data will be tarred and downloaded as a single file called heasarc-data.tar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, the requested data will be tarred and downloaded as a single file called ``heasarc-data.tar``
```

`HEASARC <https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/>`__
archive web service.

> The main interface for the Heasarc services``heasarc.Heasarc`` now uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main interface for the Heasarc services ``heasarc.Heasarc`` now uses
```

Author: fixed

> Virtual Observatory protocols with the Xamin interface, which offers

Reviewer: please add a link for `Xamin`, it meant nothing to me and that maybe the case for other users, too.

more powerful search options than the old Browse interface.

- :ref:`Heasarc Main Interface`.

.. _Heasarc Main Interface:

Heasarc Main Interface
=======================

Query a Catalog
---------------
The basic use case is one where we wants to query a catalog from some position in the sky.
In this example, we query the NuSTAR master catalog ``numaster`` for all observations
of the AGN ``NGC 3783``. We use `~astropy.coordinates.SkyCoord` to obtain the coordinates
and then pass them to `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> pos = SkyCoord.from_name('ngc 3783')
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, catalog='numaster')
    >>> tab['name', 'obsid', 'ra', 'dec'][:3].pprint()
      name    obsid      ra      dec   
                        deg      deg   
    -------- -------- -------- --------
    NGC_3783 80701617 174.7573 -37.7386
    NGC_3783 60901023 174.7571 -37.7385
    NGC_3783 60902005 174.7571 -37.7385

To query a region around some position, specifying the search radius,

> we use `~~astropy.units.Quantity`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we use `~astropy.units.Quantity`:
```

Author: fixed

.. doctest-remote-data::

    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> from astropy import units as u
    >>> pos = SkyCoord('120 38', unit=u.deg)
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, catalog='chanmaster', radius=2*u.deg)
    >>> tab['name', 'obsid', 'ra', 'dec'][:5].pprint()
               name           obsid     ra      dec   
                                       deg      deg   
    ------------------------- ----- --------- --------
                    ABELL 611  3194 120.23708 36.05722
                   B2 0755+37   858 119.61750 37.78667
    WISEA J080357.73+390823.1 28213 120.99060 39.13980
        1RXS J075526.1+391111 13008 118.85875 39.18639
     SDSS J080040.77+391700.5 18110 120.17000 39.28344

If no radius value is given, a default that is appropriate
for each catalog is used. You can see the value of the default

> radius values by calling `~~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.get_default_radius`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
radius values by calling `~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.get_default_radius`,
```

Author: fixed

passing the name of the catalog.

The list of returned columns can also be given as a comma-separated string to

> `~~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`~astroquery.heasarc.HeasarcClass.query_region`:
```

Author: fixed

.. doctest-remote-data::
    >>> from astroquery.heasarc import Heasarc
    >>> from astropy.coordinates import SkyCoord
    >>> from astropy import units as u
    >>> pos = SkyCoord('120 38', unit=u.deg)
    >>> tab = Heasarc.query_region(pos, catalog='chanmaster', radius=2*u.deg,
    ...                            columns='obsid, name, time, pi')
    >>> tab[:5].pprint()
    obsid            name                 time          pi     search_offset_
                                           d                       arcmin
    ----- ------------------------- ---------------- ------- ------------------
     3194                 ABELL 611 52216.7805324074   Allen  1.951975323208395
      858                B2 0755+37 51637.0090740741 Worrall 0.3696266904766543
    28213 WISEA J080357.73+390823.1 60315.9524768519  Pooley 1.3780163330932278
    29168 WISEA J080357.73+390823.1 60316.2761805556  Pooley 1.3780163330932278
    13008     1RXS J075526.1+391111 55536.6453587963     Liu 1.4842785992883953

If no columns are given, the call will return a set of default columns.

> If you want all the columns returned, use ``columns='*'```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want all the columns returned, use ``columns='*'``
```

Author: fixed
